# Measuring Time
- In our world, time is measured using lunar months and solar years, with adjustments so that they may match up, resulting in the totally solar Gregorian calendar. However, Llethis is a different world altogether. The #suns and moons both operate on magical, rather than physical rules.
- Though the planet is similar in mass to our own, primordial magics have altered its composition, and its far larger in diameter. However, this is compensated for by the fact that Llethis has two suns. The [[summer sun]] and [[winter sun]] are in fact two different celestial bodies. The seasons in Llethis depend on which sun dominates the sky at that point in time. Because there are two suns to cover the larger area, days can still be ordered on the 24 hour system, and there are just over 300 solar days in the solar year. The months are ordered based on farming seasons rather than lunar changes, the #moons of Llethis being rather fickle. However, usually people just use the seasons to measure changes in time.
- The seasons of Llethis are still similar to our own. A cold winter season is followed by a mild spring, which flows into a burning hot summer, then a temperate autumn. Because the two suns interact in more complex manners than our own, the concept of an equator does not exist in Llethis. Instead, the strength of the seasons depends on the area. For example, the North of the #East generally experiences longer winters, but the North of the #West experiences the most equal seasons of the western landmass.
- # Timeline of Events
- ## Prehistoric Era
- The written language was invented relatively late. It is largely credited to humans and considered one of their best achievements. Prior to this, knowledge storage relied mostly on the memory of the immortal gods.
- People in Llethis tend to not have a unified concept of a "Year 0", because each locale has its own way of categorizing eras. However, most scholars of history in this period learnt from the New Federation school of Arts, and scholarly works categorize world history into four distinct Eras: **Mythology**, **Prehistory**, **Middle**, and **Modern**. "Year 0" is the first year of the "Modern" era. This makes the current year the year 1374.