# Warning: Spoilers Ahead!
background-color:: red
- Set in the late 14th century in Llethis, our protagonists are students of Lulunata Azureus's Atelier of magic. They are considered apprentices, that is, they're just beginning their magical journey. To have been accepted by literally the second-most prestigious atelier in the world, they would need to already have a little magical talent. For example, they might have received 4 or so years of schooling at an institution of magic, or been taught by a family member or tutor, or are simply a self-taught genius.
- There is also the testing fee, which isn't cheap. Tuition itself is free and living expenses are actually completely covered, but simply to get a chance to apply, you need to scrounge together 10 lumens.
- ## Prologue
	- Possibly the testing and application part of the story? Or just starting at the atelier
- ## Part 1
	- The atelier only has about 10 hours a week of direct teaching from a mentor, in small groups. The rest of the time, you're expected to do jobs. Your mentor will simply give you a list to choose from, and if you have special requests, you can bring it up to them. How you want to complete the task is actually completely up to you, and you're even given an appropriate budget.
	- The tasks the main group will have will primarily revolve around an ancient temple of Akasha. Their explorations will first confirm that the temple is real, where it is, and then they'll begin exploring it, discovering anomalies in space-time that require more than just wits and talent.
	- Through their adventures, they'll learn that a strange, powerful enemy called the Faceless One is trying to make use of the temple to increase their own power. They'll discover that the temple concentrates spatial-temporal energy, which has been consolidated for millennia.
	- To figure out what to do, they'll make the pilgrimage to the palace of Esyl, goddess of magic. But the Faceless One takes advantage of the situation to attack the palace from within. Their goal is to eliminate Kana, the witch of prophecy, and they nearly succeed. Lulunata is forced to stay at the palace to heal her, and the last remaining witch, Zhao Yu Xiao, orders the group to destroy the temple before it's too late, while using the forces under her disposal to hunt the Faceless One and their organization, thus distracting them.
	- The group faces off against the Faceless One's disciples, and defeat them, destroying the temple and safely releasing the stored energy.