- Upon succeeding in making a #move, or taking advantage of an #opportunity, you get an action. Your action will be based on your move, and the tags you used for it. The number of effects you can make is equal to the sum of tags and statuses you used. See examples for clarification. You can do any of the following:
	- Create a Story #tag, or changing one. For example, if you used a **blacksmith** character tag, and succeeded at a move intended to forge a weapon, you might create a **dagger** story tag. Or, you might change your friend's **dagger** story tag into a **flaming dagger**, which might give its wielder the status **burning-weapon-1**. If you used the **blacksmith** character tag and the **access to forge** story tag, you would have used 2 tags and would be able to use 2 effects. This would allow you to create a **dagger** and then immediately upgrade it to a **flaming dagger**. Alternatively, if you also used an **assistant worker** story tag, you would have 3 effects, and you might do something like create a **flaming dagger** and a **longsword**. Creating doesn't necessarily mean *literally* creating, it could also mean finding an item, stealing it, or using your powers to affect it.
	- Destroy a Story #tag. A much simpler choice: you can remove a story tag from the current setting. For example, if you could use the effect of an ability tag like **shadow tendrils** to knock away and opponent's **flaming dagger**. Now lets say you were facing 3 enemies, and they wielded a **flaming dagger**, a **greataxe**, a **shield**, and a **staff**. If you had the ability tag **shadow tendrils**, status **powered-up-2** and story tag **rapid fire staff**, you would be able to use 4 effects to knock away all four weapons, removing them from the story.
	- Add or Remove a #status. This is the most useful and common sort of choice. For example, if you cut someone with a **flaming dagger**, you could use the effect from that tag to apply the status **cut-1**. Also, since **flaming dagger** gives you **burning-weapon-1**, you can use that to apply the status **burning-1**. Alternatively, you might remove a status from a person or an opponent, either to heal or debuff.
- You can mix and match these three possibilities too! For example, you might use 1 effect to knock away someone's **flaming dagger**, "removing" it from the story, and then 2 effects to "create" a **flaming dagger**-that is, steal it from them!