alias:: demons, demonkind

- Demons, unlike the other #plunderers, were once part of the elder races. They were those who underwent the greatest corruption from the #Dreamer. Their bodies changed in ways that enabled their deepest desires. Many demons became incredibly strong, others overwhelmingly beautiful. But they were rejected by the world itself following the Middle Era and the reestablishment of the barrier.
- This rejection changed them even further. The strongest demons turned into genuine monsters. The beautiful ones grew yet more beautiful features, but these traits didn't resemble human ones anymore. With demonhood a stigma, and young demons dying due to rejection they could no longer withstand, many of the demons fled before the barrier closed, falling entirely within the grasp of the Dreamer.
- But some of those that did not choose this path instead swore themselves to #Esyl instead. It was not her protection they sought, but her limitless magic power. With it, she extracted most of their bloodline, allowing them to once again disguise themselves as humans. They would now face even more rejection when revealing their true nature, but could now reproduce with the other human races, and thus survive. There are now more mixed-blood demons than true, elder demons.
- The mixed-blood avoid rejection almost altogether, but lose Esyl's blessing. They still have demonic features, visible ones, leading to social rejection in most places. Only within the [[Hua Divine Empire]] do demons experience a grudging acceptance, as the mixed-blood are able to worship safely within #Shiyin's hallowed grounds, and that alone is enough for acceptance in Hua. Still, they experience some discrimination there, and are given greater oversight, despite simply being born less lucky.
- Demonic traits generally include the following: horns, of varying shapes, growing from the skull, pointed ears, bat-like wings, tails of various, unnatural types, reptilian scales, multiple limbs. While demons and mixed-blood demons may have any or multiple of of these traits, *all* demons grow **horns**. In fact, you can tell a demon's ancestry by the number of their horns. Single-horned demons generally have very little demonic blood, and are mostly isolated to the eastern continent. Multi-horned demons are more common in the west, and those with more than two horns are almost exclusively found there.
- ## Culture
- ### Isolated Communities
	- Demonkind are not very different from the Lu in how their children are raised. However, due to their uniqueness, they're forced to do so in small, ethnic communities. Demons tend to be very traditionalist. This is in a sense, a reaction to being a diaspora without a home. They cling to the traditions they still have.
- ### Otherness
	- Demons are fairly intolerant of those who fall outside the community standard. The harsh circumstances they live with, the constant scrutiny from others, and their traditionalist attitude generally isolates demons from minority groups.
- ### Taboos
	- Demons are taught from a young age to be self-sufficient, to avoid relying on others, and to be on their best behavior. Yet many turn to violence because violence is not particularly pushed back against. There is still one taboo all demons avoid, ingrained upon their very souls. They must not give in to the part of their bodies that still remembers their ancestors' wishes. The Dreamer is still spoken of in hushed whispers in dark rooms. The one true taboo of the demons is that they never speak of their dreams.