alias:: corruption, nightmare, dream, nightmares

- The divine rank of the #Dreamer. Formerly, it also included the divinity of #magic, but that was separated from her and became #Esyl. In that sense, Esyl can be thought of as a daughter of the Dreamer.
- Dreams, or the power of corruption, is the power to grant wishes. But wishes come at a price. The power of corruption is very similar to a chemical addiction. When your first wishes are granted, you feel a sense of utter euphoria. Every little pain, every little misery, fades away. Your deepest fears are directly resolved.
- But you'll never experience that happiness again. You'll get more desires, more suffering to resolve. And wishes don't come out of nowhere. God will not grant you a second blessing. You know this, you know that it was only a one-time thing, and you're happy with that for a little bit. But you keep dreaming of what could be. In the end you give in, you make another wish. But this time you're more clever. You wish for endless wishes, for a body, a power that can grant your wishes on your own.
- And so you change. You become more beautiful, more powerful, more suited to answering your endless desires. You are chosen, and now you have the power to *take* what you want instead of praying for it. That's how ordinary people become real demons.
- In the end, you become beholden to your desires. You're only able to think about how to satisfy yourself, and nothing really satisfies you. You have to do more things, crazier things, to get the same sense of fulfillment. Those who fall into corruption almost never escape, drawn deeper by the web they weave around themselves, until they've offered not only everything they have, but everything around them, to the witch of dreams.
- It's possible to escape, it's true. Those with a strong mind and stronger will might break free from Her chains. But it's not easy. Your body, your mind, your very soul become your enemies. You will experience misery like you never have before. Your own suffering can kill you. Few escape the Dreamer's grasp.