- The Lu people descend from the #angels. They retain their religious inclinations, and the Lu heartlands still worship #Shiyin, supreme #Deity of #salvation, though the outerlands carry on a newer, ancestral folk religion.
- The Lu are winged folk, each possessing two wings that, even when folded on their back, take up a fairly large amount of space. They inherit ancestral magic that enables the function of these wings. Rarely, individuals are born with the inability to use this magic, or any magic at all, rendering them unable to fly.
- Guided by their official deity, the Lu people and the [[Hua Divine Empire]]'s policies tend to be welcoming and compassionate. However, they are also fiercely territorial, and feuds can last generations.
- The Lu are the most common people in Llethis, but live almost entirely in the #East, and meeting one is extremely rare in the #West.
- ## Culture
- ### Families
	- The Lu people place great emphasis on freedom. This starts with their upbringing. While Lu parents do raise their children carefully, most Lu families live with their relatives. Often up to a dozen children are raised together by a community of relatives rather than a pair of parents. Even while in the egg (yes, they lay eggs. Don't overthink it) parents aren't exclusive brooders. Other relatives may take turns warming the egg.
	- Because of this tradition, Lu children have a remarkable rate of survival even in harsh environments. Even orphans usually have relatives to care for them. But also, no one pair of parents dominates a child's education. Instead, teachers are hired to teach a whole crop of children, sometimes from one family, sometimes from the whole community.
	- Children are taught from a young age to make their own decisions. They're essentially forced to, as what one guardian might tell them could vary from what another says. Mature, clever children are generally praised and admired.
	- The Lu are thus, usually more open-minded and outgoing. But their social hierarchy is relatively strict and fixed. There is a strong age hierarchy, and subordinates are usually expected to obey their superiors no matter what. This may seem to contrast from their ideal of freedom, but as you'll soon find, freedom usually means freedom of choice, not freedom from control.
- ### Justice
	- This strange way of thinking is reflected in their criminal code. The Lu do not believe in imprisonment, which they see as an affront to Shiyin and their ideals. Instead, criminals are ostracized or exiled. Branding is common, as a way to mark out criminals to the community, as is the habit of exiling criminals to far-flung, harsh areas of the empire.
- ### Otherness
	- There are more #demonkind in #Hua than any other nation in Llethis. As such, the Lu people interact with them fairly frequently. They are generally ostracized, and demons usually form their own small communities within the larger Lu framework. This is not an arrangement that suits anyone. The Lu generally view the demons as dangerous, cruel, and backwards.
	- However, in comparison to their treatment elsewhere, this is the most acceptance the demons can hope for. At least, in areas where demons and the Lu mix, they are fairly cordial neighbors, at least during good times.
	- The strict family hierarchies of the Lu also exclude those who fall outside of it. This tends to mean people with disabilities, abandoned children, and queer-identifying individuals. Disabled or otherwise "strange" children are usually kept at home or married off as quickly as possible, only to be hidden away again. Freedom only really applies to the "normal" people.
	- Abandoned children are free to seek the mercy of the Church, but it's not perfect. Conditions tend to be harsh, and deviation from the rules met with strict punishment. As for the rainbow birds, they're often forced to hide their true selves.
- ### Taboos
	- Something to keep in mind for those who aren't Lu. **Do not touch their wings!** The backs of their wings are barely tolerable, but they're not for strangers. And under no circumstances can even friends touch the inside of their wings. Think about it like your legs. The inside of their wings are for their partners. No touching!
	- Lu people generally avoid showing their teeth. It is considered a bit barbaric to do so. They will often cover the lower half of their face with a hand or a wing to avoid it.