# Measuring Time
	- In our world, time is measured using lunar months and solar years, with adjustments so that they may match up, resulting in the totally solar Gregorian calendar. However, Llethis is a different world altogether. The #suns and moons both operate on magical, rather than physical rules.
	- Though the planet is similar in mass to our own, primordial magics have altered its composition, and its far larger in diameter. However, this is compensated for by the fact that Llethis has two suns. The [[summer sun]] and [[winter sun]] are in fact two different celestial bodies. The seasons in Llethis depend on which sun dominates the sky at that point in time. Because there are two suns to cover the larger area, days can still be ordered on the 24 hour system, and there are just over 300 solar days in the solar year. The months are ordered based on farming seasons rather than lunar changes, the #moons of Llethis being rather fickle. However, usually people just use the seasons to measure changes in time.
	- The seasons of Llethis are still similar to our own. A cold winter season is followed by a mild spring, which flows into a burning hot summer, then a temperate autumn. Because the two suns interact in more complex manners than our own, the concept of an equator does not exist in Llethis. Instead, the strength of the seasons depends on the area.
- # Timeline of Events
	- People in Llethis tend to not have a unified concept of a "Year 0", because each locale has its own way of categorizing eras. However, most scholars of history in this period learnt from the New Federation school of Arts, and scholarly works categorize world history into four distinct Eras: **Mythology**, **Prehistory**, **Middle**, and **Modern**. "Year 0" is the first year of the "Modern" era. This makes the current year the year #1374.
	- ## Mythological Era
		- The Age of Mythology begins with the very creation of the universe. It is said that at the very start, there was only **Light**. The universe was akin to a great big egg, with everything contained inside it. Then the egg "hatched", and from within the light burst out. Wherever it touched became the light, and whatever the eggshells covered was the darkness. From there, they divided further, creating matter, existence, life, and energy, destruction, and death respectively. From each of these in turn sprung up the first #gods. They guarded over their own domains, and set in motion the wheel of Time, from which was born the last god of the time of Myth, #Akasha.
		- At first the gods were content to live within the embrace of the boundless light, which nourished their domains. But as time turned on, they sought change. Some created lands upon which to experiment. Others mixed the light and dark and poured the great waters over the world. The Elder Gods forged life from the light.
		- Though they had created the world and everything in it, the [[Elder Gods]] decided to leave it alone. They also reasoned that without their protection, eventually everything they created would return to the light. To prevent this, they created a vast barrier, like a screen of glass, between themselves and their light-filled world, preferring to observe from behind the screen, without getting themselves deeply involved.
	- ## Prehistoric Era
		- With the "passing" of the Elder Gods from the world, the prehistoric age began. Many creatures rose to dominance in this period, and also faded away. The oldest species came to existence in this time. The true #giants, the #dragons, the immortal #phoenix, and many more creatures of legend. At first, they were merely powerful creatures, as #magic had yet to be invented.
		- With these new forms spreading over the world, a new god was born. #Seth, the dual god of [[Life & Death]]. They watched over and maintained the cycle of birth and death, preserving the right order of things. Thus, Seth also became the first of the gods of #Order.
		- For multiple, individual reasons, none of the intelligent species born in this time created a lasting written language. For some, like the dragons, they were never social enough for it to be necessary. Others never achieved the degree of cohesion needed. Though none but Seth would know, perhaps even its eventual inventors made several attempts before one stuck.
		- They were not humans. Rather, they were an older race of armored cephalopods who lived in shells and had many, muscular limbs. They are now known as the #yith or yithic race. More details of how they developed can be found on their page. With their natural ink, it was convenient for them to create a simple system of messages as an evolution of markings. These would allow them to communicate with fellow yith in a way only they could understand.
		- But words, true, lasting words, have power. There are still entire families of ancient magics that cannot be used by modern mages since they're written in yithic, a language we still cannot comprehend. And #magic itself was created not long after yithic.
		- Though, at the time magic was first developed by these brilliant cephalopods, another species had begun to develop its own societies in the central plains of the Western continent. They were the predecessors of mankind. Unlike the yiths, their path to ascendancy was paved with flames. They tamed fire, and as such, in the ancient yithic language, all humanoid races are categorized as the "Fire-Eaters".
		- Independently, these peoples developed their own language and eventually, written language. It's quite possible some did so through contact with the yith, but the truth isn't known. And thus ended the age of Prehistory.
	- ## Middle Era
		- The predecessors of humanity, the so-called "fire-eaters" were *not* truly human. They lacked something: magic. The yith could not teach them this power, for yithic magic relied on their connection to Akasha through their language. This was when one of the Elder Gods broke the taboo. In her own interest, the #Dreamer spread her influence through humanity via, as her name implies, dreams. She molded their minds into a shape suitable to express magic power.
		- Why do such a thing? The motives of gods are truly beyond us. However, it is the belief of the #Timekeepers that the Dreamer was envious of the overwhelming power of Seth. The Elder Gods had not known about the power of #faith, and before the Dreamer corrupted man, all the faith in the universe was directed to Seth.
		- By tinkering with mankind, the Dreamer stole their portion of the faith directed to Seth, and grew more powerful herself. This led to many other Elder Gods, their names lost to time, also intervening and taking their own portion of humanity for themselves. From these influences emerged the elder races of man. One god blended man and dragon to create a twisted, armored monster. Another influenced them to survive better in the water, seeking to dominate the oceans once ruled by the yith.
		- Even Akasha involved itself. They took both yith and humans directly out of the world, anointing them its #Timekeepers, designated with observing the world and preserving its history.
		- There were numerous elder races. Some rare individuals still survive to this day. The small, overwhelmingly magical true fairies. The shapeshifting dragonkin. The elder demons. The blood clan. All of these and more can mark their origin in the elder races of the middle era.
		- However, this had a dangerous, two-fold effect. Firstly, stealing the faith belonging to Seth was not without consequences, not on this scale. Secondly, in the rush to give races magic and swear them to themselves, the Elder Gods made mistakes and formed their own conflicts.
		- The first mistake resulted in the divinity of [[Life & Death]] growing unstable. The second resulted in #Radiance, the remnants of the original light, slipping through the barrier. In small quantities, it infected a few populations of humans, creating the first #angel tribes.
		- The former culminated with the complete dissolution of Seth into two distinct personalities. Death sought to harvest the world and rid it of life, becoming whole again. Life sought the opposite. In their battle against themselves, the entire world suffered. Life granted immortality like madness, weaponizing the elder species of monsters. Death created lifeless legions of destruction. In this final calamity, the greatest, and youngest of the gods, fought itself and nearly crushed the world in the chaos.
		- The latter, meanwhile, developed a faith on their own, one that worshipped the light. But this was dangerous. Through the channel of faith, more #radiance was able to infiltrate the barrier. Any of their own races could be purified by the angels, and the Elder Gods were already in too deep to give up on them now. They formed two camps. One, led by Akasha, suggested erasing the present and changing to a timeline where they obeyed the rule of the barrier as before. The other, led by the Dreamer, wanted to take over the role held by Seth and restore stability.
		- And so, a five-way war began. The destruction was so immense that the world would never be the same again. Seth destroyed itself utterly, sealing away both halves of its person. The Dreamer was sealed within time by Akasha, but this came at an immense cost to the deity of records, and it never recovered. Countless Elder Gods were entirely destroyed.
		- But the angels were the worst threat of all. If their faith grew any further, it was likely that radiance would truly descend in the form of a god. And that would spell the end of the world, the [[True Death of the Universe]].
		- To prevent this, the surviving elder gods made the decision to split off the part of their divinities fed by faith. From the Dreamer was forcibly separated the power of #magic into #Eysl, several Elder Gods created the #elemental s from the remnants of their power. Most important of all, they rebuilt the barrier, and created #Esyl to gather the power that would have gone to Seth. In doing so, they essentially cut off their limitless power from the world, and also that of radiance.
		- This time, there would be no coming back. Only in distant dreams could the Elder Gods be reached now, just as it was in the past. Deprived of the gods that created them, the elder races too, faded in power, becoming the modern races. Only a few special tribes survived, primarily by concentrating the power of their lineage in a few individuals, and thus preserving the status of those individuals while sacrificing the possibility of growth. So they too, passed into the turning of time.
	- ## Modern Era
	- The angels would become the #Lu peoples. Meanwhile, the [[Eos Sithe]] tribes would be formed from descendants of the fairy-folk. The #Denathan peoples emerged from the various beastly and elemental tribes while the remainder, the most human-like, became the #Astellian.
	- The Elder Gods left behind a plethora of younger deities. They would become known as the #Pantheon, the gods who came after the Middle Era. And it would be through them that the world would gradually heal.
	- Year 0 is generally considered the start of the Modern Era, when the [[Hua Divine Empire]] was founded. The ubiquitous presence of #[[deity template]] essentially made it possible for much of the #East to conglomerate into this one empire, while the #West remained in conflict.
	- The history of the Modern Era is much more commonly known than the Middle, Prehistoric, or Mythological Eras, many of which could really be said to belong to the time of myths. The names of every Elder God but Akasha have been forgotten. Many do not know of the elder races except in culture as myths.
	- The details of how the modern nations arose is far too long and complex to be described here, nor is it within the scope of this timeline, which seeks to describe the lore of Llethis on a deity-level scale. However, in every part, magic has played a great role. The world of Llethis is dominated by magic power. The ability of nobles to rule, for example, is largely justified in much of the world through magic power. Most people still survive off subsidence farming, yet the powerful can enjoy their fortunes through magic-powered motion pictures, foods and drinks created with spells, songs from enslaved intelligent monsters, or safe, comfortable adventures through lands commoners will never see. Though the potential of magic is enormous, it is *very* exclusive.
	- However, times are changing. Magic has accelerated innovation, and some inventors have already unveiled a magic railroad in the Hua Divine Empire. The Commonwealth is attempting to debut a steamship, powered by spells. #steam power promises an efficient, universal way of using magic power, but it's controversial.
	- In terms of weaponry, firearms technology does exist. Alchemy enables the easy creation of explosives, but metallurgy has been unable to keep up. Thus, true guns are rare (as you'll need a special, weaker powder to prevent the gun from exploding), but explosives (which don't have that problem) are fairly common in military use. Civilians are generally heavily restricted from any weapons that aren't tools.