- Their ancestors lived beneath the waves. They originally constructed robust shells resembling that of the nautilus, but are in fact closer to the argonaut, both close cousins. Because they construct bulkier shells than the argonauts, they were able to grow significantly larger. For buoyancy, the yith, like the argonauts, filled part of their shell with air. As they grew, their shell did too, and so they needed to regularly refill.
- When they began moving onto land isn't well-known. However, it's undoubtable that they did. At first, it's likely young female yith made use of their shell's water-storage capability and lighter weight to briefly forage on the surface, which was safer than the water. Eventually, the yith developed a remarkable innovation that remains to this day. Female yith would climb back to the surface with a shell filled with water and eggs, and remain there until the eggs hatched safely. Only then would the yith return to the water, keeping her and her vulnerable young safe. It's likely that the cost of fabricating the shell kept yith from evolving like their now fairly-different cousins and sacrificing themselves for their young.
- There was therefore a strong evolutionary pressure for them to become airbreathers. At first it was as simple as amphibious skin-breathing, but eventually they developed specialized organs for this purpose on both sexes.
- Yith that developed tolerance for freshwater moved further upstream, growing stronger limbs for amphibious locomotion rather than jet propulsion, which was more useful in the water. Their shell remained useful for lubrication, as it would take a great deal of time for them to truly adapt to land life.
- Their unique life cycles and evolutionary pressures gave them intense evolutionary pressure to develop a longer period of child-rearing and smaller, and therefore less oxygen-demanding, litters. These primed them to be the first true intelligent lifeform on the surface.
- ---
- Yith are nowadays quite rare. They faced stiff competition from the many humanoid races that emerged in the latter part of the Prehistoric Era. This forced many yith to move to more hidden areas. Some even developed undersea societies. Ironically, these in turn prepared them for the calamity that ended the Middle Era thousands of years later.
- All records show the yith to be secretive but not aggressive. Their archaic magic is as difficult for modern mages to deal with as our systems are for them, so it's rare for any serious conflict to emerge. It is said some merfolk have closer relations to them, but the merfolk are themselves quite secretive.
- However, being truly free from the influence of the #Dreamer does not guarantee them protection. On occasion, a yith will fall under Her influence, becoming a corrupted being. These are universally ostracized and exiled from yith societies, causing them to surface. Their high intelligence and ancient powers allow them to easily infiltrate all manner of living minds, making them extremely dangerous. Furthermore, a yith is physiologically much stronger than a humanoid of similar size, and corrupted ones can become truly monstrous.
- Though the yith invented writing to begin with, their language is still vastly different from all modern tongues. They do not vocalize much if at all, preferring to communicate through written means. Some yith have learned human languages, and it is said that one even turned its hand to writing stories. Apparently, they were not very popular among humans.
- Aside from writing, the yith invented #magic. However, their form of magic differs greatly from our own. It relies on the power of #Akasha rather than #[[deity template]]. As such, its powers also differ. For the yith, scrying the past, divination, and illusions are quite simple, while our magic finds all those difficult.