alias:: main page, wiki, home

- # Organization of the Wiki
	- This wiki was written using [Logseq](https://logseq.com/) and published using this [tool](https://github.com/logseq/publish).
	- You can find most important pages under **Favorites** to the left.
	- Links can be followed simply by clicking on them, but hovering over a link will show a preview!
	- The goal of this central page is that you are able to understand the lore and mechanics of RP in the server simply by reading this page from top to bottom.
- # Lore
	- ## Teachings
	- ``Lore in this section is presented as the writings of prominent NPCs you might meet through RP. They are publicly available records that can be found in collections and libraries worldwide, and are translated into many languages. Note that although they are publicly available, most people would likely be unable to access them due to the difficulty of travel, lack of interest, and general lack of awareness. ``
	- ### *Journals of the Immortal Witch*
		- Any discussion of the history of magic begins with theology. Part of this is because the most complete records of the past are held in the Imperial Library in Yuangan. According to the *History of the Divine Empire*, the official records of the Empire, astrologist Huifeng deduced in Imperial Year 36 that the universe is 3 billion years old, based on celestial observations.
		- This is a remarkably accurate estimate, given the technology of the time. My own research leads to the conclusion that our universe is roughly 10 billion years old. This number may be quite meaningless to the reader. The importance is that the moment the universe came into being, several Universal Laws followed it.
			- Existence precedes essence.
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Essence follows existence.
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- The various physical forces exist.
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- The importance of these three fundamental laws cannot be understated. The first means that something can exist without being defined. Without this law, nothing would exist. The second, more interestingly, means that so long as something exists, a concept of it will also exist shortly after. While abstract, I make the following claim: once the universe came into existence, so did a conceptual *spirit* representing it. This young spirituality could even be considered to be the first *deity.*
		- The ancient angels once worshipped a goddess they called "Radiance", claiming that she represented the flawless origin of our universe. If my theory is correct, then they are not mistaken about such a divinity once existing. It created the Eversea, and filled it with pieces of itself, which became the stars and planets.
		- Recall the second law. Once it created the Eversea, it too developed spirituality. The great and terrible Dreamer was the result of this, separating the world into light and dark everafter.
		- Our beautiful world of Llethis did not exist at this time. I estimate our world to be about 4 billion years old, created long after the universe itself. At first, it was a frozen, cold realm. However, thanks to the unique properties of water, beneath this crust of ice were liquid oceans!
		- Fantastical as it may seem, this theory is supported by studies! In the furthest north, untouched by man or erosion, I discovered ancient stones with glacial deposits dating back millions of years, far before the sun first rose in the sky!
		- Remember the second law! Yet another divinity emerged from this early world. The Denathan worship it as chief of their gods, Kulaloku, the Leviathan. Of the four Elder Gods, I have now listed three.
		-